Improvements to concurrency chapter (#322)
hsf-training/cpluspluscourse: talk/concurrency/condition.tex

\begin{frame}[fragile]
  \frametitlecpp[11]{Condition variables}
  \begin{block}{Communicating between threads}
    \begin{itemize}

>       \item Imagine the case where threads are waiting for work from another thread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \item case where threads are waiting for (an)other thread(s)
```
That way it should fit on the line and look better

Author: I took it into account, but changed it a bit more. 🙂

>       \item \mintinline{cpp}{std::condition_variable} from \mintinline{cpp}{<condition_variable>} header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \item \mintinline{cpp}{std::condition_variable}
      \begin{itemize}
        \item from \mintinline{cpp}{<condition_variable>} header
      \end{itemize}
```

\end{frame}

\begin{frame}[fragile]
  \frametitlecpp[17]{Using condition variables: notify}
  \begin{block}{Producer side: providing data to waiting threads}
    \begin{itemize}
      \item Protect data with a mutex, and use condition variable to notify consumers

>       \item Optimal use: don't hold lock while notifying (waiting threads would be blocked)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \item Optimal use: don't hold lock while notifying
      \begin{itemize}
        \item waiting threads would be blocked
      \end{itemize}
```

\end{frame}

\begin{frame}[fragile]
  \frametitlecpp[11]{Using condition variables: wait}
  \vspace{-1.2\baselineskip}
  \begin{overprint}
  \onslide<1>
  \begin{block}{Mechanics of wait}
    \begin{itemize}
      \item Many threads are waiting for shared data
      \item Pass a \mintinline{cpp}{unique_lock} and a predicate for wakeup to \mintinline{cpp}{wait()}
      \item \mintinline{cpp}{wait()} sends threads to sleep while predicate is \mintinline{cpp}{false}

>       \item \mintinline{cpp}{wait()} will only lock while necessary; unlocked while sleeping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      \item \mintinline{cpp}{wait()} will only lock when necessary; unlocked while sleeping
```

>       \item Threads might wake up, but \mintinline{cpp}{wait()} returns only when lock available \emph{and} predicate \mintinline{cpp}{true}

Reviewer 2: Should we mention the term `spurious wakeup` here?

Author: Orally on the lecture? I can add it to the slides as well if you prefer.

Reviewer 2: I meant mentioning on the slides in written form :)

    \end{itemize}
  \end{block}
  \onslide<2->
  \begin{block}{Waiting / waking up}
    \begin{itemize}
      \item \mintinline{cpp}{notify_all()} is called, threads wake up
      \item Threads try to lock mutex, and evaluate predicate
      \item One thread succeeds to acquire mutex, starts data processing
      \item {\color{red} Problem}: Thread holds mutex now, other threads are blocked!
    \end{itemize}
  \end{block}
  \end{overprint}

  \begin{alertblock}{Na\"ive waiting}
    \begin{cppcode*}{gobble=2,highlightlines=3}
      auto processData = [&](){
        std::unique_lock<std::mutex> lock{mutex};
        cond.wait(lock, [&](){ return data.isReady(); });
        process(data);
      };
    \end{cppcode*}
  \end{alertblock}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}[fragile]
  \frametitlecpp[11]{Using condition variables: correct wait}
  \begin{block}{Waiting / waking up}
    \begin{itemize}

>       \item {\color{green!80!black} Solution:} Put locking and waiting in a scope

Reviewer: Too light a color, try
```suggestion
      \item {\color{green!50!black} Solution:} Put locking and waiting in a scope
```
